IMPLEMENTING ACCESS CONTROL IN WINDOWS MACHINE

Lab Scenario:

    Access control is a method of limiting the access of users to an organization's resources.

Lab Objectives :

    This lab demonstrates how to manage objects in Active Directory using different types of accounts and how to apply account policies using GPO (Group Policy Object) in a Windows machine.

Overview of Access Control :

    An access control function uses identification, authentication, and mechanisms to identify, authenticate, and authorize a user requesting access to a specific resource. The access permissions determine the approvals or permissions provided to a user for accessing a system and other resources. A crucial aspect of implementing access control is to maintain the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of the information.

Lab Tasks

    1.By default PfSense Firewall is selected, click AD Domain Controller to select AD Domain Controller machine. Click Ctrl+Alt+Delete.

    

    2.By default NDE\Administrator account is selected, click admin@123 and press Enter to login.

        The network screen appears, click Yes.

        If a Shutdown Event Tracker window appears, click Cancel.

    

    3.Before implementing access control policies, we will firstly examine the properties of the current Administrator account.

    Click Start icon in the Desktop, right-click Windows Powershell and navigate to More-->Run as Administrator.

        If User Account Control pop-up appears, click Yes to continue.

    

    4.In the Powershell, type "whoami /user" and press Enter to display details regarding Security ID (SID) and other additional information of the current user.

        User accounts are identified in the system by their unique numbers. In Windows, this number is the Security Identifier (SID). In Linux, it is the User Identifier (UID).

  

    5.Now, type "get-aduser -identity administrator -properties *" and press Enter to display user account information.

    

    6.Minimize the Administrator: Windows Powershell window.

    Click the Start icon in the Desktop and select Server Manager.

    The Server Manager window appears, click Tools and select Active Directory Users and Computers option.

    

    7.Right-click the domain NDE.com and navigate to New --> Organizational Unit.

  

    8.A New Object - Organizational Unit pop-up appears. Type NetworkAdmin in the Name field and click OK.

    

    7.Right-click NetworkAdmin Organizational Unit, navigate to New --> User.

  

    8.New Object - User window appears, enter below details and click Next:

    First name: IT

    Last name: Head

    User logon name: IT_Head



    9.Enter "test@123" in both the Password and Confirm Password fields. Uncheck the option User must change password at next logon and check the option Password never expires. Click Next.



    10.In the next window, click Finish.

    Now, we must create a global security group within the NetworkAdmin Organizational Unit.

    Right-click the NetworkAdmin Organizational Unit and navigate to New --> Group.

    

    11.A New Object - Group window appears, type "TechSupport" in the Group name and click OK.

    

    12.Now, add the IT_Head account to the TechSupport group. To do so, right-click IT_Head and select Add to a group….

    

    13.A Select Groups window appears, in the field Enter the object names to select, type Tech and click Check Names button. The name TechSupport appears, click OK.

    

    14.A pop-up appears, indicating a successful addition of a user to the group. Click OK.



    15.Now, right-click the FinanceOU Organizational Unit and navigate to New --> Computer.

    A New Object - Computer window appears, type Computer01 in the field Computer Name field and click OK.

    

    16.Switch to the Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type "get-adcomputer -filter * | out-file C:\useraccounts.txt" and press Enter to create a detailed report of all computer objects in the domain.



    17.Navigate to C: drive to check whether the file useraccounts.txt exists.



    18.Double-click the file useraccounts.txt to see its contents. The newly created user account (Computer01) can be observed, as shown in the screenshot.

    

    19.Close all the windows, except Windows PowerShell.

    Now, we shall modify the existing GPO in order to set password requirements.

    To launch Group Policy Management, click Windows Start icon and navigate to Windows Administrative Tools --> Group Policy Management.

        Alternatively, Group Policy Management can be launched by typing gpmc.msc in Run. To open Run, right-click on Start and click Run.

  

    20.The main window of Group Policy Management appears. Expand the Forest: NDE.com>Domains>NDE.com and select Default Domain Policy, as shown in the screenshot.

        The Default Domain Policy is a single password policy that works for all members of a specific domain, it offers no flexibility to have different password polices for different kinds of users. It is recommended that password management is the only use of the Default Domain Policy.

    In Group Policy Management Console, click OK.

    

    21.Right-click Default Domain Policy node and select Edit….

  

    22.In the Group Policy Management Editor window, under Computer Configuration, expand Policies --> Windows Settings -> Security Settings --> Account Policies. Click on Password Policy; the password policies will be listed in the right pane.

  

    23.You can see the default password policies that are listed in the right-pane, as shown in the screenshot.

    

    24.We must configure the policies to match the requirements are given below. To edit the policy, double-click each of them.

    Policy 	                                       Setting
    Minimum Password Length 	                     14 characters
    Maximum Password Age 	                         90 days
    Minimum Password Age 	                         1 day
    Enforce Password History 	                     20 days
    Store Passwords using Reversible Encyrption 	 Disabled

        To implement the changes in the Policy, make the desired modifications, then click Apply and click OK.

  

    25.Now, switch to the Administrator: Windows PowerShell, click to type "gpresult /H C:\passwords-policy-settings.html" and press Enter to generate report of the password policy settings to updating configuration documentation.



    26.Navigate to C: drive to see if passwords-policy-settings.html file exists.

    

    27.Now, double click passwords-policy-settings.html file.

    A browser window appears displaying Group Policy Results file, as shown in the screenshot.

        If browser notification appears, click Ask me later.

    

    28.This file displays a detailed report on the implemented account policies. You can explore it further.

    Close all the opened windows finally.



Question :

Examine the properties of the current Administrator account on the AD Domain Controller machine. Enter the Security ID (SID) of the identified user.

Examine the information of the Administrator account on the AD Domain Controller machine using Windows Powershell. Enter the value of the instanceType field from the result obtained.
